Document how to use KubeVirt (#394)
coreos/fedora-coreos-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/provisioning-kubevirt.adoc

Fedora CoreOS is designed to be updated automatically, with different schedules per stream.

The image for each stream can directly be referenced from the official registry:

----
quay.io/coreos/fedora-coreos:{stable|next|testing}
----

== Launching a VM instance

Now that you have an image it can be used in your VMI definitions. The following example will use the image from the stable stream.

You'll also need the Ignition config.
Here the Ignition config is exposed to the VMI via a Kubernetes Secret.
Learn about various ways to expose userdata to VMIs in the https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/virtual_machines/startup_scripts/#startup-scripts[KubeVirt user guide].

.Creating the secret
[source, bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic ignition-payload --from-file=userdata=example.ign
----

.Launching a VM instance referencing the secret
[source, bash]
----
cat << END > vmi.yaml
---
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  name: my-fcos
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: cloudinitdisk
      rng: {}
    resources:
      requests:

>         memory: 1024M

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        memory: 2048M
```

1GiB seems a bit small.

@bgilbert - WDYT?

  volumes:
  - containerDisk:
      image: quay.io/coreos/fedora-coreos:stable
    name: containerdisk
  - name: cloudinitdisk
    cloudInitConfigDrive:
      secretRef:
        name: ignition-payload
END
kubectl create -f vmi.yaml
----

Now you should be able to SSH into the instance. If you didn't change the defaults, the
username is `core`.

.Accessing the VM instance via ssh
[source, bash]
----
kubectl virt ssh core@my-fcos
----

== Mirroring the image for use in private registries

If a private registry in air-gaped installations is used, the image can be mirrored to that registry.

.Mirroring a fcos image from stable stream
[source, bash]
----
skopeo copy docker://quay.io/coreos/fedora-coreos:stable docker://myregistry.io/myorg/fedora-coreos:stable

> ----

Reviewer: may also be cool to document the "download from s3 and upload" case here too (using `coreos-installer download` I presume) in case people need to physically copy the file around to get it into the environment they want. The command above assumes skopeo has access to the net and to the disconnected env, which may not always be true.

Reviewer 2: But one doesn't have to copy between two registries.  `skopeo copy docker://quay.io/coreos/fedora-coreos:stable oci:fcos` gives you a local directory that you can then copy around however you'd transport regular files (e.g. `cp fcos /mnt/usbstick`).  Then on the other end of the sneakernet, `skopeo copy oci:fcos docker://examplecorp.registry.int/fedora-coreos:stable`.

I think using native container copy flows should be preferred over plain HTTP.

Reviewer 3: Ah, okay.  Let's document that flow explicitly then?

Reviewer 2: Or to say it more strongly...I think we can just say "any tool that understands container images can be used to mirror", and link to e.g. https://github.com/containers/skopeo/blob/main/docs/skopeo-sync.1.md

(Which already documents exactly this with `--dir`, etc.)

Before provisioning an FCOS machine, you must have an Ignition configuration file containing your customizations. If you do not have one, see xref:producing-ign.adoc[Producing an Ignition File].

You also need to have access to a Kubernetes environment with https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/operations/installation/[KubeVirt] installed.

== Downloading the KubeVirt Image

Fedora CoreOS is designed to be updated automatically, with different schedules per stream.
Once you have picked the relevant stream, download the ociarchive:

NOTE: For more information on FCOS stream offerings see xref:update-streams.adoc[Update Streams].

[source, bash]
----
STREAM='stable'
coreos-installer download -s $STREAM -p kubevirt -f ociarchive
----

Alternatively, you can manually look up a KubeVirt image from the
https://getfedora.org/coreos/download?tab=cloud_operators[download page] and directly download the ociarchive from there.

== Uploading the Image to a Container Registry

.Upload the image to your container registry
[source, bash]
----
FILE=fedora-coreos-XX.XXXXXXXX.X.X-kubevirt.x86_64.ociarchive
skopeo copy oci-archive:${FILE} docker://quay.io/myorg/fcos:dev
----

== Launching a VM instance

> Now that you have an image it can be used on your VMI definitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you have an image, it can be used in your VMI definitions.
```

You'll also need the Ignition config.

> Here the ignition config is exposed to the VMI via a Kubernetes Secret.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here the Ignition config is exposed to the VMI via a Kubernetes Secret.
```

> Learn about various ways on how to expose user data to VMIs in the https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/virtual_machines/startup_scripts/#startup-scripts[user guide].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Learn about various ways to expose userdata to VMIs in the https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/virtual_machines/startup_scripts/#startup-scripts[KubeVirt user guide].
```

= Provisioning Fedora CoreOS on KubeVirt

This guide shows how to provision new Fedora CoreOS (FCOS) nodes on any KubeVirt-enabled Kubernetes cluster.

== Prerequisites

Before provisioning an FCOS machine, you must have an Ignition configuration file containing your customizations. If you do not have one, see xref:producing-ign.adoc[Producing an Ignition File].

You also need to have access to a Kubernetes environment with https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/operations/installation/[KubeVirt] installed.

== Downloading the KubeVirt Image

Fedora CoreOS is designed to be updated automatically, with different schedules per stream.
Once you have picked the relevant stream, download the ociarchive:

NOTE: For more information on FCOS stream offerings see xref:update-streams.adoc[Update Streams].

[source, bash]
----
STREAM='stable'
coreos-installer download -s $STREAM -p kubevirt -f ociarchive
----

Alternatively, you can manually download a KubeVirt image from the
https://getfedora.org/coreos/download?tab=cloud_operators[download page] and directly download the ociarchive from there.

== Uploading the Image to a Container Registry

> .Upload the image to your container registry

Reviewer 3: Do we not plan to upload the image ourselves as part of the release process?

Reviewer 3: Added a comment there.  If possible, let's get a push location worked out and avoid the copy awkwardness.  We should point users directly to the stream tags in our repo, though, rather than having them copy the image elsewhere.  We might still want to document the download/upload flow, in case there are users using private registries without direct Internet access, but let's put it at the bottom of the page and document it as an advanced case.

Author: :+1: Updated with a possible draft on how this would look like.

[source, bash]
----
FILE=fedora-coreos-XX.XXXXXXXX.X.X-kubevirt.x86_64.ociarchive
skopeo copy oci-archive:${FILE} docker://quay.io/myorg/fcos:dev
----

== Launching a VM instance

Now that you have an image it can be used on your VMI definitions.

You'll also need the Ignition config.
It can be provided directly on the VMI like in this example, or https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/virtual_machines/startup_scripts/#startup-scripts[uploaded to a secret].

.Launching a VM instance
[source, bash]
----
cat << END > vmi.yaml
---
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  name: my-fcos
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      disks:
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: containerdisk
      - disk:
          bus: virtio
        name: cloudinitdisk
      rng: {}
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  volumes:
  - containerDisk:
      image: quay.io/myorg/fcos:dev
    name: containerdisk
  - name: cloudinitdisk
    cloudInitConfigDrive:
      userData: |-

>         {
>           "ignition": {
>             "version": "3.3.0"
>           },
>           "passwd": {
>             "users": [
>               {
>                 "name": "core",
>                 "sshAuthorizedKeys": [
>                   "ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2 [...]"
>                 ]
>               }
>             ]
>           }
>         }

Reviewer 3: Rather than expecting users to figure out how to inline the Ignition config, let's give them an example.  Since we're already using a here-doc with `cat`, this might be something like:

```suggestion
$(cat config.ign | sed 's/^/        /')
```

though that's a bit awkward, since it hardcodes the indentation level.

Author: Switched to using a k8s secret where the ignition file can directly be uploaded via a `kubectl` call. That may be the better solution. :+1:
